Spongilla lacustris (Linnaeus, 1759)
中文名：湖针海绵
|
Spongilla lacustris, also commonly referred to as freshwater sponge, is a species of sponges from the family Spongillidae. They inhabit freshwater rivers and lakes, often growing under logs or rocks. Lacustris is a Latin word meaning "related to or associated with lakes". The species ranges from North America to Europe and Asia. It is the most common freshwater sponge in central Europe. It is the most widespread sponge in Northern Britain, and is one of the most common species of sponges in lakes and canals. Spongilla lacustris have the ability to reproduce both sexually and asexually. They become dormant during winter. The growth form ranges from encrusting, to digitate, to branched, depending upon the quality of the habitat.

Spongilla lacustris is part of the class demosponges of the phylum Porifera. The Porifera phylum contains all sponges which are characterized by the small pores on the outer layer, which take in water. The cells in the sponge walls filter food from the water. Whatever is not uptaken by the sponge is pumped through the body out of a large opening. The class demosponges are the most abundant and diverse of the sponge classes. Some of the sponges in this class have skeletons made from silicon-containing spicules, spongin fibers, or both. Demosponges include both marine and freshwater sponges.

Spongilla Lacustris are freshwater sponges that prefer shallow, clear waters. They are commonly found in ponds, lakes, and slow-moving waters. They can be found both protected from the sun under rocks and logs, and on reeds and on rocks where there is more exposure.

Spongilla Lacustris are filter eaters that consume small floating organic particles. They are consumed by Sisyridae, a group of winged insects also known as sponge flies. Their larvae act as parasites on the sponge and feed exclusively on it during its larval period. Ceraclea are insects that not only feed on the sponges but will use the sponges' spicules to build hard, protective cases for themselves.  As the larva grows, it not only adds spicules to its casing but pieces of the sponge itself. When the ceraclea reaches adulthood and leaves the sponge, it carries and disburses fragments, thus facilitating the formation of new sponge colonies.

Spongilla Lacustris can appear in several forms, including branching, clump-like, or crust. On average, the sponge grows to be a few inches in length. The color ranges from white to green, depending on the amount of zoochlorella, a green algal tissue, available. The algal tissue has a symbiotic relationship with the freshwater sponge. The algae help facilitate oxygen and food uptake for the sponge, while the sponge provides the algae a surface to live on.
|
ref
txt https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spongilla_lacustris
img https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spongilla_lacustris
vid null
|
publication
null
